In the previous video, we already learn about
the concept of VTP.
The point is, VTP is used to create VLAN automatically
on many switches.
Next in this video, we are going to practice
about VTP.
But first, let’s create the topology for
practice about VTP.
Let’s import some switch, we will use 2960,
let’s say we will need 4 switches.
Now let’s connecting all the switches.
Okay, this is the topology that we are going
to use to learn about VTP.
Next, the first thing that we need to do before
configure VTP is configuring trunk on all
interfaces that connected to other switches.
Let’s just start.
Let’s change the name of the switches first.
This is switch 1, this is switch 2, this is
switch 3, and last this is switch 4.
Okay now let’s start configuring trunk on
switch 1, here we can see that the interface
that connected to switch 2 is fa0/1, we will
configure this interface as trunk.
Enable, configure terminal, go to interface
fa0/1, and then switchport mode trunk.
Okay next let’s configure switch 2, we will
configure fa0/1 and fa0/2 as trunk.
Let’s go to cli, enable, configure terminal,
interface range fa0/1 until 2,
and then switchport mode trunk.
Next, for switch 3, here we will also configure
fa0/1 until 2 as trunk.
Go to CLI, enable, configure terminal, interface
range fa0/1 until 2,
and then switchport mode trunk.
Last, let’s configure for switch 4, here
we will only configure fa0/1 as trunk,
enable, configure terminal, interface fa0/1, and then
switchport mode trunk.
Okay, now we have done create a topology for
practice about VTP.
So here we just connecting 4 switches and
configure all interfaces that connected to
other switches as trunk.
Okay, I think enough for this video, in the
next video we are going to practice about vtp.
Thank you for watching and see you on the
next video.